Topic:
APRA AMCOS – What we do

Text and links from the website:
https://www.apraamcos.com.au/about/what-we-do
APRA AMCOS is a music rights management organisation. We pay royalties to music creators when their music is played or copied, both locally and overseas. Over 119,000 songwriters, composers and music publishers appoint APRA AMCOS to look after certain rights on their behalf. This means organisations don’t have to contact individual music creators to legally use their music.
Businesses or organisations can buy a licence from us to play, perform, copy, record or make available our music. We then pay the royalties to our members and overseas affiliated societies. We advocate for our members' rights. From government submissions through to our Ambassador Program, we promote the importance of music creators’ rights to all levels of government, the media and the
wider community. We frequently consult with our ambassadors to seek their input on issues affecting our members. We represent your music globally. As an APRA AMCOS member, you enjoy global representation for your music rights. We have agreements with other organisations like us around the world. So, when your music is used in another territory, our affiliates collect money on your behalf. They then pay these royalties to us, and we pay you.

Text from the Mega Book
APRA AMCOS acts as a link between you (the music creator), and those who wish to use your music or make it available (the music users) by helping you to manage copyrights associated with your musical works.
It would be impossible for a writer/composer to contact all the different types of music users to find out if your music was being used and to try and establish and collect appropriate licence fees. APRA AMCOS performs these services on your behalf. We have the administrative infrastructure and licence agreements in place to do this at an international level. We charge music users a licence fee for to play music, and we pass that fee along to our members in the form of royalties. APRA AMCOS are two separate organisations. APRA is the Australasian Performing Right Association and AMCOS is
the Australasian Mechanical Copyright Owners Society. APRA AMCOS has reciprocal agreements with many international performing rights and mechanical rights organisations. If your music is played in other countries, international organisations just like APRA AMCOS are licensing and collecting within their own territories on your behalf. They pass that money to APRA AMCOS, and we pay it to our members. APRA AMCOS also does this for international Performing and Mechanical Rights associations when their members have their music played in Australasia.

Text from Live Chat
APRA AMCOS is a music rights management organisation.
We grant licences for the live performance, broadcast, communication, public playing, and reproduction of our members’ musical works (songs and compositions).
We then distribute the net licence fees collected to our 115,000+ songwriter, composer and music publisher members and affiliated societies worldwide.

Videos Completed
Get to know APRA AMCOS https://youtu.be/HFlny-tAuow