Topic:
Beats

Text from the Mega Book
(This same section is under Samples) BEATS & SAMPLES
Beats and samples are prevalent tools for creating musical works. Permission is required for using samples and pre-made beats, as it is somebody else’s copyright work. Often you require permission from the composition owner and the sound recording owner so may need to contact both the publisher (or composer) and record label. Permission must be in writing and include the percentage shares required by the original creators. When you're sampling somebody's song, you are using their original work to create your new one. As such, they are entitled to receive royalties and credit for the sample of their work that you have used.
MAKING YOUR OWN BEATS AND SAMPLES
AVAILABLE If you're using a platform to make your beats and samples available for other people to licence, ensure that the terms and conditions of the website/platform allow for those who use your beats to credit you. We encourage you to thoroughly read through the terms and conditions within these websites as some can clearly state clauses that can result in you giving up your rights. If you ever need help understanding what you're signing up for, we encourage you to contact the Arts Law Centre of Australia.
Based on the rights you’ve assigned to APRA AMCOS and your Digital Aggregator; you may not be able to upload your music for use on a royalty free website. If you want to make your music available on royalty free websites, you may have to apply for a License Back.
Permission for non-commercial use of beats is common in website terms however, once the song is released for commercial purposes, you could be entitled to receive credit and possibly a share of any songwriter royalties. Regardless of what is stated in the terms and conditions, ‘royalty free’ does not necessarily mean PRO free.

Text from Live Chat
Using a “sample” of someone else’s musical work to create a new work, without permission, is infringing that person's copyright.
So, you need to get permission if you want to use a “sample” of a musical work and that comes directly from the copyright owners – the writer(s) and/or the music publishers.
If you are using someone’s recording of a musical work, you’ll also need permission to use that recording directly from the copyright owner – usually the record company. The cost of using a “sample” will be negotiated between you and the copyright owners.

Videos Completed
How to sell and register your beats  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GQE177tAAno