Topic:
Co-writing

Text and links from the website:
https://www.apraamcos.com.au/music-creators/member-resources/guides/co-writing-splits-and-registering-your-works
How to decide who owns a song?
Like any good relationship, songwriting collaborations work best when there’s mutual trust and respect. When discussing songwriting splits, it comes down to what co- writers are happy with, and what they think is fair.
Tips on how to approach song splits.
Agree – when possible, agree on how to approach the splits BEFORE the writing starts. Jam sessions happen, collaborations can be spontaneous, but always try to discuss splits at the start of the work.
Review – when the song is finished, ensure everyone is happy about their percentage, and the percentage that their co-writers are receiving. Examples of common co-writing splits Equal shares – Often, band members who
write together (or co-writers) simply split their songwriting royalties equally between them. Alternatively, writers within a band will also adjust the percentages if they feel that one person has written more than others. Have these conversations openly.
Not all band members may be writers. Nashville Rule – this is a term used when an equal percentage of ownership is given to EVERYONE who was in the room during the writing of the song, regardless of how much each person contributed.
This is the method that APRA AMCOS uses at our SongHubs songwriting camps.
Think of it as ‘If you were in the room, you’re in the song.’
Music and lyrics – Traditionally, songs were thought of in terms of music and lyrics. 50% of ownership went to whoever wrote the music; and 50% ownership went to whoever wrote the lyrics.
The way people create music today means that this tradition doesn’t always apply. Some writers choose to expand splits to consider other musical elements like production, riffs, harmony, groove, and arrangement.
Top liners and track writers – Today, music is often written collaboratively by a combination of professional top liners (writers who specialise in words and melody) and track writers (writers who create chord structures and musical backings etc).
Often producers are cut into songs if they have contributed to the writing and construction. At the top level of the industry, even artists are sometimes given a percentage, simply for lending their profile and fanbase to the song.

Text from the Mega Book
There is no right or wrong way to split
royalties between writers. No matter what you decide upon, it is important to create an agreement with writing splits detailed in a written document. This can be a written contract, formal agreement, text message, email etc. Something is better than nothing.
Like any good relationship, song writing collaborations work best when there’s mutual trust and respect. When discussing song writing splits, it comes down to what co- writers are happy with, and what they think is fair. Here’s some helpful tips on how to approach song writing splits.
Agree – When possible, agree on how to approach the splits BEFORE the writing starts. Jam sessions happen, collaborations can be spontaneous, but always try to discuss splits at the start of the work. If the creative process prevents a discussion from occurring before a session, make sure to schedule time at the
end of the session to agree on splits.
Review – when the song is finished, ensure everyone is happy about their percentage, and the percentage that their co-writers are receiving.
Get it in Writing – A formal contract is ideal, but if all you can manage is a text message or email to which everyone replies with their agreement to the shares is better than nothing.
REGISTERING WORKS WITH APRA AMCOS
Once you have agreement on song split percentages, make sure you register the song with APRA AMCOS ASAP. You can quickly and easily register your works in the APRA AMCOS Writer Portal, or in the APRA AMCOS for Music Creators App. You must register your works before they can earn royalties.
CAN SONG SPLITS BE CHANGED AFTER A WORK IS REGISTERED?
After a song has been registered with us, we require written permission from ALL the co- owners (co-writers AND publishers) to change it. This can prove almost impossible if there are no longer relationships within bands or between co-writers. It's important that you know whoever you register on a work is there permanently unless they agree in writing to have their shares changed.

Text from Live Chat
Here's how to register a new work: Log in to your account.
At present general works can be registered in the writer portal and app.
Enter information about the work you want to register, including:
Work title
Alternative title
Performer
Duration
ISRC
Only the green ticks above are required but give us any information you have.
Add contributors (everyone involved in writing this work) by clicking the "add co-writers’ button”. You can list their:
First Name
Last Name
IPI number (if known)
Their role (from the following options):
Composer - someone who has contributed to the music
Author - someone who has contributed to the lyrics
Composer/Author - someone who has contributed to both the music and the lyrics
Finally add the percentage share for each co- writer of the work, you can choose an even split or manual split.
This indicates how much they contributed to the work and what percentage of the copyright they own.
Click 'Register Work' to finish, and you're done.
Unless you are a jingle writer for radio or television, we do not require an audio upload for a work registration.
At present we only use Music Recognition Technology for our jingle distributions. Should this change we'll let the entire membership know.

Videos Completed
Working with co-writers: https://youtu.be/6fXkFGftVoE
Understanding royalties and songwriting splits:  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZsUol4mkGl4