Topic:
Distribution / Getting paid

Text and links from the website:
https://www.apraamcos.com.au/music-creators/membership-explained/distribution-overview
We license businesses for the music they use. We collect music data from multiple sources, including radio and TV stations, streaming services, live performances, background music services, and more.
We auto match data to songs and compositions in our database. Unidentified songs are then matched to their copyright owners by our team of researchers.
We calculate royalties according to our distribution rules and practices.
We pay royalties to our members and overseas societies.
https://www.apraamcos.com.au/music-creators/membership-explained/royalties-overview/domestic-royalties
APRA and AMCOS pay royalties that we collect from domestic use quarterly—that's every 3 months. If you're a member of both APRA and AMCOS you'll receive 2 separate royalty payments at different times.
Why does it take 3 months?
From the first date of music use, it takes approximately 3 months to receive and process the music use information from the businesses and organisations we license. That means it can take 3-4 months from the date of music use for domestic royalties to be
received and paid.
APRA Writer & Publisher Member royalties’ calendar
February
Live Performance, Radio, TV, Promoted Events, Nightclubs, Streaming Services, Digital Downloads and Other Royalties Sources*
May
Live Performance, Churches, Radio, TV, Promoted Events, Nightclubs, Streaming Services, Digital Downloads and Other Royalties Sources*
August
Live Performance, Education, Radio, TV, Promoted Events, Nightclubs, Streaming Services, Digital Downloads and Other Royalties Sources*
November
Live Performance, Government, Childcare, Defence, Churches, Radio, TV, Promoted Events, Nightclubs, Streaming Services, Digital Downloads and Other Royalties Sources*
*Other Royalties Sources: Airlines, Background Music, Hotels, Clubs, Dance Schools, Cinema, Fitness, Physical Product Sales, Video on Demand, Music on Hold, Websites and Other Online Platforms (YouTube, Facebook etc.) AMCOS Publisher Member royalties Mechanical royalties
1 March / 30 May / 29 August / 29 November Print royalties
Annually
AMCOS Writer Member royalties Mechanical royalties
March / June / September / December Print royalties
Annually
https://www.apraamcos.com.au/music-creators/membership-explained/royalties-overview/international-royalties
APRA AMCOS pays you royalties that we collect from international use once a month (we’re one of the few societies to pay your international royalties on a monthly cycle).
What's an international royalty vs domestic  royalty?
Domestic royalties are earned in territories administered by APRA AMCOS. International royalties are earned in territories administered by our International Affiliates.
International royalties can be delayed. Sometimes there can be a significant delay between the performance of your music overseas and the distribution of these royalties to APRA AMCOS. For most types of music use, the payment of royalties can take at least a year from when the performance
happened. We’ll always pay you as soon as we can.
International royalties for our members are accounted to us regularly by our International Affiliates. The major societies are required to pay royalties to us at least every quarter, depending on the source of those royalties and the agreements they have with licensees in their territory. They are required to pay us within a month of paying their own members.
Some societies have delayed royalty distributions due to withholding tax issues.
To ensure we distribute international royalties accurately and timely, we prioritise distributing payments from our key International Affiliates. This means that some royalties from smaller territories may take longer to be processed and paid.
If you have any questions about the timing of international royalty payments, please contact Writer Services.
Payments of international royalties also depend on whether we are affiliated with a collecting society there—so payments aren’t always guaranteed.
What you need to tell us
We monitor overseas sources such as TV and radio broadcasts and chart information.
However, if you know your music has been used overseas, let us know ASAP by completing the relevant form. We'll contact the international society to seek royalties for you.
Tell us about overseas tours, the use of your music in film, TV, jingles, and other broadcasts or record releases. This will ensure we can make claims on your behalf and check any incoming royalties.
Earning international royalties in the USA Most countries only have one performing rights organisation (PRO), like APRA in Australia.
In the USA however, there are multiple PROs, and APRA AMCOS has reciprocal agreements with three: ASCAP, BMI and SESAC. If you start to earn royalties in the USA through the live performance or broadcast of your works, one of these PROs will act on behalf of APRA AMCOS to manage your rights. You can choose which one.  https://www.apraamcos.com.au/music-  creators/member-resources/guides/living-  earning-or-touring-overseas/earning-royalties-  in-the-usa
Choose who we work with on your behalf. APRA AMCOS has partnerships with more than 90 performing rights organisations (PROs) around the world. Through these organisations, we collect performance royalties on your behalf, and pay you when your works are performed or broadcast overseas.
Like most countries around the world, Australia only has one PRO - APRA. In the USA however, there are multiple PROs, and APRA AMCOS has reciprocal agreements with three: ASCAP, BMI and SESAC.
Why is this important?
Once you start to earn royalties in the USA, you’ll need to select one of these PROs to act on behalf of APRA AMCOS to manage your rights there. It’s important to know that nothing will change with your APRA AMCOS membership. All your royalties, including overseas income, will continue to be paid to you by APRA AMCOS. Our agreements with international affiliates simply mean we can offer you options for USA royalty collection.
How do I choose?
It’s 100% your choice, so do some research on each PRO: ASCAP, BMI SESAC.
As soon as you start earning royalties in the USA, you have one month to notify us of your chosen PRO otherwise your works will automatically be designated through ASCAP. If you are in the USA and would like to meet with a PRO to help you decide, please get in touch with one of our international reps who can set up a meeting.
When you have decided, notify our Writer Services team. Note that changing PROs later can be a lengthy and complicated process.
What if I have a publishing deal?
Firstly, it’s important to notify APRA AMCOS when you sign any kind of publishing deal. This ensures we can correctly manage your rights.
If you have a publishing deal in the USA (which includes sub-publishing agreements), it’s likely that your USA publisher will have a preferred PRO. This means your publisher will register your works through one PRO and your works will be paid from that PRO.
If you would prefer to designate your works through a different PRO, please contact our Writer Services team to discuss your options. If your publishing deal does not include the USA, you can choose a USA PRO as above, and advise APRA AMCOS of your choice. Get in touch with our Writer Services team if you have any questions about designating your rights in the USA.
Manufacturing overseas?
Contact AMCOS before getting started.
If you're an AMCOS member and you're planning to have physical formats (CDs, DVDs, vinyl, cassette etc.) of an upcoming release manufactured in a country other than Australia or New Zealand, you may be required to pay mechanical royalties before finished goods can be released.
Contact AMCOS as early as possible in the production planning process to discuss your options.
International banking and tax
If you’ve got a bank account overseas, we can still pay you!
You can receive royalty payments into any international bank in a range of currencies. Get in touch to find out more.
It is important to note that withholding tax is applied to most international payments and therefore the Country of Economic Residence should be the country in which you currently lodge tax returns.
You can notify APRA AMCOS of any Country of Economic Residence changes via email.
If you’re earning money in multiple territories, we recommend you seek the advice of a tax agent with a firm understanding of international taxation. This is the best method to ensure that any tax already paid on foreign revenue is appropriately claimed on any tax returns lodged.

Text from the Mega Book
In your portal, you can find information about when APRA payments are made to members. There are two different types of distribution:
1.Domestic APRA distributions (Major Distributions) which include everything we've collected in our own territory. Those go out four times a year in February, May, August, and November.
2.In between each of those quarterly distributions there are mini distributions. Mini Distributions capture any international earnings that have come in from overseas. Any adjustments including changes to songwriter divisions, big festivals that you've played at would be included in a mini distribution.
A domestic distribution has a minimum payment threshold of $1.00, so if you've earned at least $1.00 you will be paid in a quarterly distribution. The monthly distributions on the other hand, have a minimum threshold of $10.00. You need to have earned at least $10 before you'd receive payment on a mini one.
When we receive payments for your works from foreign territories, the distributions are processed as quickly as possible to ensure you receive payment promptly. If you think you've been underpaid, please contact us.
We have licence agreements in place with most legal digital service providers (e.g.
Spotify, Apple Music). Traditionally, we would expect royalties to be paid out 6 months after streaming or download in Australia or New Zealand - depending on the reporting and processing lead times. Overseas royalties do take longer, as they must first be processed by our international affiliate societies. This can take 12-24 months, depending on the territory.

Text from Live Chat
APRA AMCOS distributes royalties primarily in our quarterly distributions (in Feb, May, Aug,
& Nov).
However, we also have mini distributions in the other months to catch adjustments and overseas royalties.
We can't provide an exact date for each distribution; however, it is generally in the second half of each month.
You will receive an email as soon as payments are made.
We take care of your royalties worldwide through reciprocal agreements with performing and mechanical right organisations just like APRA AMCOS in 70+ countries.
However, when your music is used overseas, it is subject to the laws, distribution rules and policies of the society in question.
Please note: Royalties accrued overseas can take 12-24 months to be received, as they must first be processed by our overseas affiliates.

Videos Completed
When will APRA AMCOS pay my royalties?  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nL1HYVI3vNU