Topic:
How to join APRA AMCOS

Text and links from the website:
https://www.apraamcos.com.au/music-creators/join-as-a-writer
It’s free to join, and once you do, we can:
Give businesses permission to play, perform, copy, or make available your music.
Collect payments from those organisations in the form of music licences.
Pay you royalties for identified use of your music.
You'll also get plenty of opportunities to grow your music career with discounts and deals, networking and industry events, expert advice on your royalties, competitions and more.
Remember, you don't have to join to copyright your music. That's free and automatic.
If you write or compose your own songs, you may be eligible to join APRA. You'll also need to match one or more of the following criteria: You or someone else performs your songs live OR
Your songs are broadcast on radio or TV OR Your songs are available to stream online. You can't join if you're a member of an overseas Performing Rights Organisation. If
you're in a band, only the members who write or compose music need to join.
Joining AMCOS is separate from joining APRA. You may want to join AMCOS if you have unpublished works released on a recording for sale to the public or reproduced in a production music recording. You can join AMCOS if:
You're a copyright owner of musical works.
At least one of your works is unpublished and has been commercially reproduced e.g.: available on a digital music service like Spotify or Apple Music, released as a physical product by a third party, or reproduced in a production music recording.
Depending on how your music is used, you can sign up for just APRA, or APRA and AMCOS.
So, what's the difference?
APRA represents your public performance and communication rights.
That means if your music is performed live or broadcast on radio or television or streamed or downloaded on a commercial digital music service, we'll collect royalties and pay them to you.
AMCOS represents some of your reproduction rights.
That means if your unpublished music is copied for commercial purposes, like a compilation CD or sheet music, we'll collect royalties and pay them to you.
If all your works are published, your publisher will collect the reproduction royalties on your behalf, and you don't need to join AMCOS.

Text from the Mega Book
Joining APRA:
1.Criteria
Joining APRA is free and becoming an APRA member is easy! There are only 3 criteria to be eligible:
1.    You have written or co-written an original piece of music.
2.    Your original music has been able to be heard by the public (e.g. performed live, uploaded online, broadcast on radio).
3. You’re not already a member of any other performing rights organisation anywhere in the world.
If all these points are true, then head to our website to fill in the Writer Member application. Once submitted, our Writer Services Representatives will review your information to make sure everything is in order and check to see if we already have songs you’ve written on file.
When your membership is approved, (usually around 7 business days) we’ll be in touch via email to let you know and will send you the steps to log in to your writer portal so you can start registering songs right away!
2.What you need to apply
To work successfully with APRA AMCOS there are a few things you will need.
A valid email address – you’ll need this to log on to your online writer portal so you can register musical works, claim your live performances, view your royalty statements, and loads more!
You also need to be able to receive the APRAP newsletter and emails to keep you up to date on all our offers and events.
An active bank account – so we can pay you!
A valid residential address.
If under18, parental or guardian consent.
2a.What you don’t need to join.
You don’t have to be a citizen or permanent resident of Australia, New Zealand, or any APRA AMCOS territories. Our members come from all around the world and have chosen APRA as the PRO they trust to collect royalties on their behalf.
You don’t have to live in Australia or New Zealand – we can transfer your money overseas directly into your local bank account and usually in your local currency too. Get in touch for more details.
You don’t need an ABN. While having an ABN is recommended for Australian residents, it is not required. You can always join as a
writer member, then obtain your ABN and add it to your account later.
3.What you get as an APRA AMCOS member:
Lifetime free membership – no need to renew or pay any fees ever.
Royalties collected on a global scale.
An IPI number – this identifier is unique to you as a creator and is used by collecting societies worldwide to match performances of your music back to you as a member of APRA.
Access to our Writer portal
Access to APRA AMCOS events & networking such as The Connect Sessions, The Regional Sessions, 3-2-1 Songwriting workshops, Insights webinars.
A dedicated First Nations songwriter Department.
Your vote for members of the APRA Board.
Your vote in the annual APRA Song of the Year award (and the chance to win yourself!).
Access to our awards with cash prizes including the Art Music Award and Professional Development Award.
Ability to apply for career development programs like the Women in Music Mentorship and SongHubs

Text from Live Chat
If you're a composer, lyricist, or songwriter of original music and your music has been communicated to the public in some way, you're eligible to join as an APRA AMCOS Writer member. Joining is free.
We have upgraded our writer member joining process. It is now easier than ever before to join.
Click on Music Creators and select 'Join as a Writer'

Videos Completed
Who can join APRA AMCOS?  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FLIDPMNzfuo