Topic:
Legal Issues

Text and links from the website:
https://www.apraamcos.com.au/about-us/news-and-events/arts-law-on-music-and-copyright
From Arts Law –
Copyright is automatic. As soon as you create a new song or piece of music in a material form, you have copyright in it
Infringement occurs when a substantial part of an existing copyright work has been used without permission.
If you think your copyright has been infringed, seek legal advice from either Arts Law or a music or IP lawyer.
World Intellectual Property Day takes place each year on April 26, and is the perfect time to reacquaint yourself with your rights as a music creator.
Number one rule? Copyright is free and automatic. That means as soon as you create a new song or piece of music, you have copyright in it.
It’s not all as straightforward as that though, and songwriters and composers should learn as much as they can about copyright to ensure they control how their music is used.

Text from the Mega Book
APRA AMCOS & COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT
Please note that APRA AMCOS work equally for all our songwriter members so we must remain as a neutral third party and as a result, we cannot provide legal advice, nor can we resolve a dispute.
If you have found that your music has been used without permission, there are certain steps that we would advise our writers to do:
1. Try to contact the person directly and attempt to resolve the situation.
2. If you can’t reach the other party, and your work is being used without your authorisation, contact the media licensing team, and ask us to have it taken down for you. APRA writer services might also be able to assist with communication. We may be able to contact them either ourselves or through one of our affiliates overseas.
3. If it is applicable, we would put the work into a dispute status. This means no one is getting paid at all until the whole thing is resolved.
Once a disagreement is resolved, APRA AMCOS will remove the dispute status from your work.
RESOLUTION PATHWAYS
If you cannot come to a resolution or agreement, you can contact Resolution Pathways as an alternative dispute resolution process. Resolution Pathways offer a mediation service as a third-party mediator. The resolution process can go ahead whether the other parties agree to be involved or not.
Online Infringement and Take Downs
A copyright claim is different to a takedown notice (AKA an infringement notice).
Infringement notices are issued only when there's un-authorised use, or when the rights holder requests it. We can issue a takedown notice on your behalf but you're also able to do this yourself. Each streaming platform has its own takedown procedure.
You must have a legitimate reason for issuing a take down, such as a lack of synch clearance
or a disagreement with the content. The other party can dispute that takedown notice and legal action must follow within seven days. If there is no follow up, we're not able to then take any further action in future.


