Topic:
OSLPR

Text and links from the website:
https://www.apraamcos.com.au/music-creators/member-resources/guides/overseas-performance-reports
So, your music was performed overseas as part of a live performance...
To claim royalties from our overseas affiliated societies for the live performance of your works, you will need to complete an APRA Overseas Performance Report. In most cases, you can claim performances that have taken place overseas up to 2.5 years prior. However, special claimable periods and schemes apply for performances that take place in the United States of America. Please check below the territory specific information for where you are claiming for overseas performances.
Please note that payment for overseas performances is not guaranteed; claims are subject to the rules and practices of our affiliated societies. There are also certain territories where there are no effective societies or concert licensing. There is also a chance that by submitting a claim to a foreign society, the society will be prompted to seek to license a venue/promoter that was not previously licensed.

Text from the Mega Book
Once you have submitted your Overseas Live Performance Report online, we'll submit your claim to our international affiliated societies (provided there are functioning societies in the countries you've toured). This form can be found on the APRA AMCOS Website.
Depending on their distribution policies, certain performances may be payable, and others won't be payable. Once the society has verified the performances, any relevant payments will be made in their next available distribution back to us. Payment timeframes can vary, depending on how frequently the society distributes.
Provide the date that you performed, the venue, venue address, and your set list. Please include covers in your set list, because we're going to pay you royalties for your own original songs that you performed, but we're going to pay the songwriters of any covers you performed too.
You can enter live performance reports at any time after the gig. Once we've received the submission and we've processed it, you may get paid in our quarterly distributions. Only one person from the group needs to submit an LPR. Not everyone needs to do it.

Text from Live Chat
APRA AMCOS has reciprocal agreements with many overseas societies that allows you to claim for performances overseas.
We take care of your royalties worldwide through reciprocal agreements with performing and mechanical right organisations just like APRA AMCOS in 70+ countries.
However, when your music is used overseas, it is subject to the laws, distribution rules and policies of the society in question.
Please note: Royalties accrued overseas can take 12-24 months to be received, as they must first be processed by our overseas affiliates.
