Topic:
Performance Reports

Text and links from the website:
https://www.apraamcos.com.au/music-creators/member-resources/guides/performance-reports
https://www.apraamcos.com.au/music-creators/membership-explained/royalties-overview
If one of your songs or compositions are performed in a licensed venue, you're eligible to earn performance royalties. This includes when you perform your own music. You can get royalties by submitting a Performance Report through the Writer Portal or APRA AMCOS for Music Creators app (from the App Store or Google Play).
Submitting your Performance Reports It's easier than ever to submit your
Performance reports on-the-go in the APRA AMCOS for Music Creators app or in the Writer Portal. No more annual deadlines, submit as you go with royalties paid quarterly (February, May, August, November).
You just need to tell us about the performance:
WHAT songs were played WHERE they were played WHEN they were played
Live Performance royalties are distributed quarterly. Submit as soon as you can after a performance, but you won't miss out if you don't report in the same quarter.
Don’t delay! The standard claim period for Performance Reports is limited to one year from the date of the performance. It may be extended to up to three years from the date of the performance, where additional evidence (e.g.: copies of material advertising the performance, ticket, posters, and letters from the venue) is provided in support of the claim.
The extended three-year retrospective claim period is not open to new members. A new member may only claim retrospective performances for the 12 months immediately preceding their date of application.
The App and Writer Portal automatically sets the performance dates you are eligible to claim.
What's on-costing?
We work with some live music venues that pass on the APRA live music licence fee to the performer—you. We contact members when our records indicate this may be the case and reimburse this amount to the relevant rights holders of the works performed at this show.

Text from the Mega Book
If you play live at pubs, clubs, cafes, or other live music venues in Australia and New Zealand, you can get royalties for these performances by submitting a Performance Report. Just tell us what songs you've performed in which venues, and you could be paid for playing your original music live. Please make sure you also tell us about any covers you perform so the original songwriters can get paid too.
You can submit your Performance Reports on- the-go via the APRA AMCOS for Music Creators App or in the Writer Portal.

Text from Live Chat
Performance Reports tell us when, where, and what you’ve performed so that we can accurately pay you live performance royalties.
You can submit via the APRA AMCOS for Music Creators app or in the Writer Portal.
You must include:
Performance date
Venue name and address
List of works performed
There is not an annual deadline or closing date for Performance Reports. We encourage you to submit as soon as you can after a performance, but the process is flexible so that you can submit when it suits.
The standard claim period for Performance Reports is one year from the date of the performance. However, if you provide additional evidence such as copies of advertising material, tickets, posters, or letters from the venue, you may be able to extend the claim period to up to three years from the performance date.
The extended three-year retrospective claim period is not available for new members. As a new member, you can only claim performances from the 12 months before your application date. The App and Writer Portal will automatically show you the eligible performance dates for claiming.
Once you’ve logged in to your APRA AMCOS songwriter account (or APRA AMCOS app), look for 🎤 Submissions and click 'New Submission'. You will submit one for each performance or gig.
For each performance you will need to provide:
Performer Name
Performance Date
Venue Information
Performance Type
List of Songs Performed
Please note: You will need to register your songs before you can add them to a Performance Report.

Videos Completed
How do I get paid: Performance reports:  https://youtu.be/eh3vv0p8wNw?si=HZib4xXXdRzFZ0tE