Topic:
Producers

Text and links from the website:
https://www.apraamcos.com.au/about-us/news-and-events/new-technology-is-helping-electronic-music-producers-to-get-paid
APRA AMCOS is utilising new technology to track music played in nightclubs.
They are using music recognition technology (MRT) and Pioneer DJ’s program KUVO
They are encouraging music creators to ensure their tracks have the required metadata, such as title, performer, and record label, so they can be tracked.
APRA AMCOS is leading the way in the use of new technology to identify music used in nightclubs. What does that mean? Well, hopefully, that more creators of the bangers and tunes that have dancefloors heaving will get paid when their work is played.
We’re using music recognition technology (MRT) and Pioneer DJ’s KUVO in clubs to collect information on what’s played so that we can accurately distribute royalties to copyright owners.
How music creators can help
To help us correctly identify music through KUVO, our Innovation & Electronic Music Specialist Frank Rodi is calling on music creators to ensure all their tracks have metadata identifying the title, performer, and record label (at the very least). He also recommends they upload all their tracks to the DJ Monitor uploader to fingerprint their
music to maximise identification opportunities through MRT.
There's also exciting news for Traktor DJs. If they download and use Ritchie Hawtin's RADR app, KUVO can now ID the music they’re playing.

Text from the Mega Book
Not everyone will receive royalties. APRA AMCOS only pays the songwriters/composers. It is common for producers to receive a cut of the royalties if they, for example, have created a beat that was used.
If the producer was only providing production ideas and didn’t contribute directly to the composition, they would not be able to collect royalties.
Top liners and track writers – Today, music is often written collaboratively by a combination of professional top liners (writers who specialise in words and melody) and track writers (writers who create chord structures and musical backings etc).
Often producers are cut into songs if they have contributed to the writing and construction. At the top level of the industry, even artists are sometimes given a percentage, simply for lending their profile and fanbase to the song. The actual composition is different to the sound recording and there may be people who could ask for shares in the recording. These include engineers, producers, and session musicians. You don't have to give these people a share, however these agreements should be negotiated. It’s common to create a contract
to show these parties that their payment or compensation for the recording is one time only and there will be no ongoing royalties. The crucial thing is to get agreements written and recorded in some form.


Videos Completed
Can producers earn royalties?  https://youtu.be/NlpEA0KvytA?si=ov2vZNRQyfiSkK5p