Topic:
Publishing (What is a publisher?)

Text and links from the website:
https://www.apraamcos.com.au/about/help/faqs?faqs%5Bmenu%5D%5Bcategories.lvl0%5D=Popular&faqid=37039
AMCOS has reciprocal agreements with other affiliated societies around the globe – meaning your reproduction royalties are collected worldwide. Some territories overseas require individuals to set themselves up as a Publisher or use a third-party music service to collect 100% of reproduction royalties, but as an AMCOS member you do not need to do this.
If all your songs or compositions are published, your music publisher will collect your reproduction royalties, and there's no reason to join AMCOS. AMCOS is primarily a royalty collection service and does not play the role of a music publisher.

Text from the Mega Book
WHAT ARE MUSIC PUBLISHERS?
A music publisher is a company that controls and administers the rights in musical works on behalf of songwriters and composers.
Publishing entities receive the payments for mechanical reproductions and pass a percentage of this along to the songwriters. Independent publishers and major publishing companies are there to help nurture and grow composers while looking after business administration. A publisher can help promote artists by getting greater attention for you and your music including radio broadcasts, Spotify playlisting, sync placements in film & TV and high-profile co-writing opportunities.
A publisher works for you and in return, they receive a cut of your royalties. When someone is asking for a share of the publishing, they are asking for a share of your songwriting royalties.
When you sign a publishing deal it means changes to the way you receive payments from APRA AMCOS.
APRA AMCOS and your publisher work together to pay our songwriter members. Under a standard agreement 50% of the APRA performing royalties continues to go straight to you, whereas the other 50% goes to your publisher.
100% of your AMCOS royalties are paid entirely to your publisher. They take their agreed percentage and pass your royalty share back to you directly.
There are two types of agreements: General Catalogue (GC) and Specific Works (SW).
A Specific Works agreement covers works written for a particular project, or individual works specified by either the writer or publisher. For any of your works that fall outside of the specific works agreement you either:
-     still own all the rights and can receive all the royalties or,
You can approach other publishers with those works.
It is possible to have several specific works agreements with different publishers. You either retain the copyright for unpublished works or you can assign it to other publishers.
Your publisher is going to register works on your behalf regardless of the type of deal you have. It is important that you keep APRA AMCOS and your publisher updated if you have completed new works.
Some territories overseas require individuals to set themselves up as a publisher or use a third-party music service to collect 100% of their songwriting royalties, but in Australia, an individual can join APRA and AMCOS to collect the entirety of their songwriter royalties. We sometimes call this “self-published”.
SELF-PUBLISHED
If you are self-published, this means that you don't have a signed publishing deal in place. As a member of both APRA and AMCOS we can still collect and pay you all of your songwriter royalties.
If you are an AMCOS member, you can still sign a publishing agreement. You might have a ‘specific works’ deal with the publisher for only some of your works which means that all your other works are not subject to that publishing agreement, allowing you to collect
the mechanical royalties yourself as an AMCOS member.
SUB-PUBLISHERS
Most major publishing companies are located overseas. At a local level within your country or region, the major companies are represented by a sub-publisher. Sub- publishers often have a different name to your original publisher.
The sub-publisher is also able to register your songs on behalf of the major publisher and they may also collect fees for administration costs.
You may receive payment notifications from a publishing entity that you're not familiar with. This may be because the sub-publisher is paying you.
Independent publishers based overseas may not have an Australian sub-publisher to register the works on your behalf. In this case, you will need to send us a copy of your foreign publishing agreement. This agreement will include:
-    Information about the splits between you and your publisher
- Whether your agreement is a ‘Specific Works’ or a ‘General Catalogue’ agreement and
-     A full list of all the works covered by the agreement.
The publisher services team can add this information to your account and can adjust the registration for any of the songs that are affected. This information is kept on record so that if you add new songs that form part of that foreign publishing agreement, the correct publisher shares will still be paid. As a writer, you don't have the ability to add publisher shares. In the case of foreign publishing agreements where there's no local sub publisher, our team looks after that for you. You can continue to register the works as usual, and we make sure everything gets paid correctly.
Quite often a foreign publishing agreement
will only pertain to certain territories overseas. In this case, AMCOS would continue to collect any of your mechanical royalties from our own territories.
ADDITIONAL WORKS REGISTRATION RECEIVED
If you had already registered a work and then you have it published, your publisher will create a new registration containing their royalty shares. As this makes two registrations for the same work, our systems flag the double up. In your member portal, two options could appear, there is an additional registration for the work, or that the work is in dispute. Once the works have been processed and merged, the notice will disappear.
RETENTION PERIODS
A retention period means that a publisher can continue to collect royalties from performances that took place within the specified term of the contract. Retention periods are put in place to make sure that a publisher gets all the money that they're entitled to while the contract was in effect.
This is common, as it can take a long time for royalties to filter through, particularly if coming from overseas. A Retention Period Clause would typically be included within the T&Cs of a publishing agreement from any publishing company.

Text from Live Chat
Whenever APRA refers to whether a work is published, we are asking whether you have signed a publishing agreement with a third- party company for that work.
Music publishers nurture and develop songwriters and composers and take care of the business aspects of their career. Music publishers make an investment - in terms of money, time, and experience - in their writers.
They exploit the copyright in the music and songs created by their writers to make a return on that investment, and to reward the writers for their creative work.
AMPAL represents Australian and New Zealand Music Publishers.
The Australasian Music Publishers Association (AMPAL) is a trade organisation that works on behalf of its members to promote a better understanding of the value of music, both culturally and economically.

