Topic:
Publishing (Can I join as a publisher?)

Text and links from the website:
https://www.apraamcos.com.au/music-creators/join-as-a-publisher
https://www.apraamcos.com.au/music-creators/membership-explained/why-join
Thinking about becoming a music publisher? Forming a music publishing business requires you to apply your creative and industry knowledge and experience to the development of other writers and their catalogues, in return for a percentage of their royalty income.
Music publishing entails a high level of accounting processes and responsibilities. Are you ready to become a music publisher?
What you need before you apply as a music publisher member
If you have formed a music publishing company and wish to become a full publisher member, you'll need to meet the following requirements: You are a bona fide music publishing business in Australia, New Zealand and/or a South Pacific Nation. A “bona fide music publishing business” means a business that:
has ownership of, is assigned or licensed from a composer or an author the copyright in a minimum of one musical (or musical and literary) work (“musical work”) which has been reproduced and commercially released or exploited or published in some other form. carries out as some of its day-to-day activities: administration of copyright in the musical works it owns or controls (including but not limited to the registration of the copyright details with APRA and/or AMCOS and accounting and payment of royalties and fees to the relevant composers and/or authors); management of the various rights in the musical works it owns and/or controls including but not limited to reproduction, and performing rights; and
licensing the use of the musical works it owns and/or controls to third parties.
and
has engaged the services of a person who is actively involved in managing the business’ ongoing day-to-day music publishing activities in Australia, New Zealand and/or a South Pacific Nation.
You have a signed music publishing agreement with a minimum of one composer and/or author who is a member of APRA.
Your signed music publishing agreement includes a clause recognising the prior and/or subsequent assignment of performing rights by the composer and/or author to APRA.
You have a local bank account located in Australia, New Zealand or a South Pacific Nation.
You have a Certificate of Registration of a Business Name or Company Number from ASIC or the NZ Companies Office, which must match the company or business name on your application.
If you do not meet these eligibility requirements but you control the reproduction rights in certain musical works in Australia, New Zealand and/or a South Pacific Nation, you may still be eligible to join as an associate publisher member.
Once you're a member, you are required to register all the agreements you have with your writers. You'll also be expected to register
each one of your writers’ works that you control on an ongoing basis. Your agreements must outline:
The term of your agreement (start/end dates) Your entitlement, if any, to the collection of royalties prior to start date
The territories covered under your agreement. Whether you are to cover the general catalogue or specific works (you must provide the list of specific works)
The writer/publisher split (for performing rights your publishing company cannot claim greater than 50%)
What rights are covered under your agreement, for example: Performing—public performance/communication of a song
through live performance, broadcast on radio, TV, download, streamed
Mechanical — song reproduced in physical/digital form via CD, vinyl, download, streamed.
Synchronisation—song used in conjunction with moving picture/film.
Print—song printed into sheet music.
Once you successfully complete the initial assessment, you'll receive application forms for publisher membership via email. Once you have returned the completed, signed and witnessed application forms, they will be submitted to the APRA AMCOS Board for review. The Board meet approximately every 2 months.
When the APRA & AMCOS Board are satisfied that you meet the basic criteria, you can be elected as a publisher member.
Songwriter & composer membership
In some countries, forming a music publishing company is necessary to collect reproduction royalties, but this isn't the case in Australia.
You only need to become a music publisher member if you represent other writers’ catalogues. If you're a songwriter who only represents your own catalogue you should make sure you’ve joined APRA and, if you are unpublished, AMCOS as a writer member.

Text from Live Chat
APRA AMCOS Publisher members represent and administer the copyright of multiple other songwriters or composers.
APRA AMCOS Publisher members can register works and publishing agreements using CMS (Copyright Management System).
If you need to install CMS, please contact your publisher representative or email  publisher@apra.com.au
APRA AMCOS Publisher members represent and administer the copyright of multiple other songwriters or composers.
https://www.apraamcos.com.au/music-creators/membership-explained/what-a-publisher-does
If you are a self-publishing writer member, you do not need an additional publisher membership, your writer membership ensures you get 100% of your royalties.

