Topic:
Releasing

Text and links from the website:
https://www.apraamcos.com.au/about-us/news-and-events/how-to-get-your-music-on-spotify-apple-music-youtube-music-and-beyond
If you’re an independent songwriter, composer and musician looking to release your music, you’ll need a digital music aggregator.
Aggregators are a conduit to help you distribute your music globally through digital stores and streaming platforms.
You should consider fees and the services on offer when deciding on an aggregator.
Are you ready to release your music digitally but not sure what to do next? With streaming now accounting for 56.1% of all global recorded music revenue, you need to get your music out there, but make sure it’s on your terms.
If you have a record deal, it’s likely that your label takes care of getting your music on to digital music services (DSPs) like Spotify, Apple Music, YouTube Music, Amazon and more.
But DSPs rarely deal with individual artists, so if you’re an independent songwriter, composer and musician looking to release your music, you’ll need a digital music aggregator.
What is an aggregator?
Aggregators are a conduit to help you distribute your music globally through digital stores and streaming platforms. They make their money by charging upfront fees and/or charging a percentage of revenue earned from the streaming and downloading of your music.
The flow of revenue from digital service provides to artists and creators
In some cases, aggregators will also charge an ongoing annual fee to keep your content online.
With other models, the annual fee is charged and set according to the number of songs or albums you want to distribute.
Most services also offer User Generated Content (UGC) digital fingerprinting to ensure use of your music on platforms like YouTube and Facebook is monetised.
Some aggregators also have ‘à la carte’ services like publicity, social media management, playlist pitching and sync and licensing. Make sure you are aware of costs and terms and conditions on offer.
So how do you pick an aggregator?
The first thing to note is that there is no one standout aggregator that works for all.
The best option for you may change over time, and what might work at the start of your career may not be the best option down the track. You should spend time researching each aggregator so you can make an informed decision that works best for your needs.
There are numerous aggregators worldwide including established local services in AU/NZ and international services with local onground reps – all delivering music globally. Read our ‘Get to know your local aggregator’ Q & A featuring:
NOISEHIVE DITTO DRM NZ
GYROstream
Don’t miss these sources either: Apple has a dynamic list of its recommended aggregators listed here and Spotify also provides information about suggested aggregators here.
What services do you need?
There are several important factors to consider:
Term: Make sure you understand how long the contract is for and what termination clauses are in place - especially regarding penalties if you terminate your contract early.
Fees: What are they and how are any additional charges applied?
Payments: How regularly does the aggregator pay artists?
Reporting: How often do they supply reports on streaming and other insights?
Rights: What's covered and what might you be liable for? Understanding the difference between the sound recording and mechanical (underlying musical work) rights is imperative. For example, if you make any cover versions of songs available for sale in the USA, you should be aware digital 'mechanicals' are often paid back to labels, or in the absence of a label, you the artist, by your aggregator. This means you could be responsible for paying those mechanicals to the rightful copyright owners. Also be wary of an aggregator that may ask you to waive your performance or 'communication to the public' rights.
Contact Writer Services with any questions about digital mechanical royalties and earning in the US.
Publishing and synchronisation: Is your aggregator asking you to assign synchronisation rights, and if so, what benefits are they offering to you in return?
Ensure you are fully aware of what rights you are assigning if you engage an aggregator to provide you with publishing services.
Promotion, playlisting pitching, publicity: Are you looking for a one-stop shop to help you coordinate the release of your music? Make sure you understand the associated fees and services.
Digital service providers: Does your aggregator deliver to the music stores you want your music to appear on? For example, if you create electronic music, does your aggregator service Beatport?
UGC: Will the aggregator also deliver to UGC platforms so you can monetise the use of your music through digital fingerprinting? This is a service that can make life a lot easier, with revenue being paid through to you by your aggregator.
Submission criteria: Some specialist stores do not accept all music. Check with your aggregator if you want to make sure your music is on a specialist service or platform.
Delivery times: How long will it take before your music appears on a digital music service? Local versus International – consider if the service has an in-market presence and/or local reps.
Final tips
Make sure you are acquainted with Spotify for Artists and Apple Music for Artists
Most importantly, you should always read the terms and conditions. If legal jargon is not your thing, make sure you seek independent legal advice. The Copyright Council and Arts Law Centre of Australia offer great legal resources.

Text from the Mega Book
WHAT IS AN AGGREGATOR?
An aggregator is an online distributor. These are third-party organisations that make your music available in all the different online stores and streaming services whether that's the majors, like Spotify and Apple Music, or more niche stores.
If you’re an independent songwriter, composer and musician looking to release your music, you’ll need a digital music aggregator. You should consider fees and the services on offer when deciding on an aggregator.
Aggregators make their money by charging upfront fees and/or charging a percentage of revenue earned from the streaming and downloading of your music.
In some cases, aggregators will also charge an ongoing annual fee to keep your content online. With other models, the annual fee is charged and set according to the number of songs or albums you want to distribute.
Most services also offer digital fingerprinting to ensure use of your music online is correctly identified for payment – even on User Generated Content (UGC) on platforms like YouTube and Facebook.
Some aggregators offer ‘à la carte’ services like publicity, social media management, playlist pitching and sync and licensing. Make sure you are aware of costs and terms and conditions associated with this.
HOW TO CHOOSE AN AGGREGATOR
The first thing to note is that there is no one standout aggregator that works for all. The best option for you may change over time, so what might work at the start of your career may not be the best option down the track. You should spend time researching each aggregator so you can make an informed decision that works best for your needs.
There are numerous aggregators worldwide including established local services in AU/NZ and international services with local on ground reps – all delivering music globally.
WHAT SERVICES DO YOU NEED?
There are several important factors to consider:
Term: Make sure you understand how long the contract is for and what termination clauses are in place - especially regarding penalties if you terminate your contract early.
Fees: What are they and how are any additional charges applied?
Payments: How regularly does the aggregator pay artists?
Reporting: How often do they supply reports on streaming and other insights?
Rights: What's covered and what might you be liable for? Understanding the difference between the sound recording and compositional (underlying musical work) rights is imperative.
AMCOS & AGGREGATORS
The role of an aggregator is to act as the “middleman” to help you distribute your music globally through digital service providers (DSPs), such as Spotify or Apple Music. The aggregator pays the accountholder directly for any sales or streams of the sound recording. Separately, each sale or stream generates a mechanical royalty for the songwriter. These mechanical royalties are withheld by the DSP. Mechanical rights organisations, like AMCOS, hold licence agreements with DSPs, and collect mechanical royalties directly from them. Royalties are then on-paid to the writers.
Publishing and synchronisation
Is your aggregator asking you to assign synchronisation rights, and if so, what benefits are they offering to you in return? Ensure you are fully aware of what rights you are
assigning if you engage an aggregator to provide you with publishing services.
Promotion, playlisting pitching, publicity: Are you looking for a one-stop shop to help you coordinate the release of your music? Make sure you understand the associated fees and services.
Digital service providers: Does your aggregator deliver to the music stores you want your music to appear on? For example, if you create electronic music, does your aggregator service Beatport?
User Generated Content (UGC): Will the aggregator also deliver to UGC platforms so you can monetise the use of your music through digital fingerprinting? This is a service that can make life a lot easier, with revenue being paid through to you by your aggregator.

Text from Live Chat
Digital aggregators are a conduit to help you distribute your music globally through digital stores and streaming platforms i.e.
Spotify
Apple Music
iTunes
Google Play and more
They distribute your music across these platforms & collect Sound Recording royalties. APRA AMCOS then distributes the mechanical royalties only.
Digital Aggregators do charge for their services. This can be an upfront fee, charging a
% of revenue earned from your music or a subscription.

Videos Completed
What is a Digital Aggregator? https://youtu.be/WlqNZMAiVOE