Topic:
Remixing

Text and links from the website:
https://www.apraamcos.com.au/about/help/faqs?faqs%5Bmenu%5D%5Bcategories.lvl0%5D=Remixes&faqid=89366
A remix is a sound recording that has been altered, edited, or otherwise reworked to sound different from the original song. A remix typically features some parts or samples of the original recording (even if these samples are altered in any way) together with new
material composed by the remixer.
Remixes are commissioned for several different reasons. This may be to target a different market e.g. a club remix of a commercial release for DJs to play in nightclubs, a radio friendly remix of a club track for commercial airplay, or even as a launch tool for an up-and-coming artist.
https://www.apraamcos.com.au/about/help/faqs?faqs%5Bmenu%5D%5Bcategories.lvl0%5D=Remixes&faqid=89376
When can I register a remix with APRA AMCOS?
You can register a remix with us after you've obtained written permission from the owners of the original song, and if the remix is original enough to be considered a new musical work. The original owners may be songwriters,
music publishers or both.
Before registering the remix, ensure that all owners involved in the remix (including original songwriters, music publishers and remixers) agree to the remix ownership details that you will be supplying to APRA AMCOS. If the copyright owner of the original song does not grant permission for you to claim royalties for your remix, you will not be able to register your remix with us.
Once you have obtained permission and all copyright owners agree on the ownership details, email us a copy of this permission, along with your remix registration details. You should provide the original copyright owners with details of the ISRC (International Standard Recording Code) and any new performers associated with your remix so that this can be added to the existing APRA AMCOS work registration.
Please be aware that you cannot register or claim APRA AMCOS royalties for cover songs. The royalties for cover songs are paid to the original songwriters and music publishers.

Text from the Mega Book
REMIXES
A remix is a sound recording that has been altered, edited, or otherwise reworked to sound different from the original song. A remix typically features some parts or samples of the original recording (even if these samples are altered in any way) together with new
material composed by the remixer.
Remixes are commissioned for a few different reasons. This may be to target a different market e.g., a club remix of a commercial release for DJs to play in nightclubs, a radio friendly remix of a club track for commercial airplay, or even as a launch tool for an up-and- coming artist.
You may have been given permission to create and release a remix, but this does not necessarily entitle you to register the remix with APRA AMCOS and claim royalties.
It is quite common for the owner of the original song to provide permission for your remix to be commercially released so long as they retain the copyright in the remix. In this instance, the royalties for the remix will be paid to the songwriter and music publisher of the original song.
If you wish to claim a share of royalties for your remix, you will always need to obtain the written permission from the owners of the original song. The original owners may be songwriters, music publishers or both. If permission is granted for you to claim a percentage of royalties for your remix, you should email us a copy of this permission along with your remix registration details.

Text from Live Chat
There is no licence available through an organisation like APRA AMCOS to cover arrangements or remixes.
It's a right that always sits with the original copyright owner to license directly.
Without permission from the owner, you are infringing on that creator’s adaptation right and could be liable for this breach.
Remixes cannot be registered in the writer portal.
If you wish to claim a share of royalties for your remix, you will always need to obtain the written permission from the owners of the original song. The original owners may be songwriters, music publishers or both.
If permission is granted for you to claim a percentage of royalties for your remix, you should forward a copy of this permission to worksreg@apra.com.au along with your remix registration details.

Videos Completed
What is a remix?  https://youtu.be/Pk0Fz8ndRgU?si=FAYTJ1gZJLf5LrOu