Topic:
Rights

Text and links from the website:
https://www.apraamcos.com.au/about/how-it-all-works/how-music-copyright-works
Copyright is free and automatic. Copyright is there from the moment you write down or record the song you've created.
The Australian Copyright Act (1968) gives music copyright owners several exclusive rights. Nobody else can use the work without getting the owner’s permission first, and if necessary, paying a royalty for this use.
APRA AMCOS represents 2 basic rights that apply to songs and compositions.
Performing right (APRA)
The PERFORMING right is exercised when a song or composition is performed in public.
This includes:
Played live at a gig, concert or festival. Broadcast on TV or radio.
Streamed on digital services. Played in a shop or restaurant. Viewed on YouTube
Used in an exercise class.
Reproduction right (AMCOS)
The 'Reproduction right' is exercised when a song or composition is copied in any form for commercial purposes.
This includes:
Third party commercial products (e.g. a record label via CD, vinyl, DVD, cassette, stream, and download)
Synchronising an existing song with a film or TV programme
Sheet music
https://www.apraamcos.com.au/about/help/faqs?faqs%5Bmenu%5D%5Bcategories.lvl0%5D=General&faqid=71420
What rights does APRA AMCOS control? We represent performing rights (including communication rights) and reproduction rights for most types of music uses.
What is a performance right?
Songwriters and composers own the right to have their original music performed in public. So…they control the right to:
play their songs/compositions live at a venue or an event.
play a recording of their songs/compositions in a business, venue or workplace
have their songs/compositions used in a film or advertisement.
What is a communication right?
Songwriters and composers own the right to have their original music communicated to the public. So, they control the right to:
have their song/composition broadcast by television and radio stations.
have their song communicated to the public online.
have their song used via an on-hold telephone system.
What is a reproduction right?
Songwriters and composers own the right to have their songs and compositions reproduced or copied. So, they control the right to:
have their music used for a film’s soundtrack. have their music copied onto a CD, DVD or reproduced online for sale.
have their lyrics and music reproduced as sheet music.

Text from the Mega Book
APRA helps our members to manage three different types of copyright:
- Public Performance Right: This applies anytime your music is played in public as a live performance.
- Communication Right: These apply when your work is transmitted via wires - including music on hold and the internet.
- Broadcast Right: These apply when your song is broadcast on TV or radio.
AMCOS manages the mechanical right for our member’s works and collects reproduction, or mechanical, royalties. As it would be difficult for unpublished writers to collect their overseas mechanical royalties, we encourage writers to opt in to have AMCOS collect these mechanical royalties globally.
PLEASE NOTE:
When a song is recorded, copyright protects two parts separately:
- There is copyright for the composition / words and music.
- There is separate copyright for the actual sound recording or ‘master’.
APRA AMCOS does not manage the copyright in the sound recording. The public performance of the sound recording is administered by the PPCA in Australia and Recorded Music NZ in New Zealand. The reproduction of your sound recording may be managed by your record label or digital aggregator.
Some territories overseas require individuals to set themselves up as a publisher or use a third-party music service to collect 100% of their songwriting royalties, but in Australia, an individual can join APRA and AMCOS to collect the entirety of their songwriter royalties. We sometimes call this “self-published”.

Text from Live Chat
undefined

Videos Completed
New video: ‘Rights Paid’ coming soon!
Does APRA AMCOS collect all your royalties for songwriting?  https://youtu.be/aJcpTmoKdrs?si=xPW7tW1SappXkiKX