Topic:
Royalties / Getting paid

Text and links from the website:
https://www.apraamcos.com.au/music-creators/membership-explained/royalties-overview
Music licences
Almost all businesses and organisations use music. Think of your favourite café, hairdresser, nightclubs, festivals, radio stations, television ads, streaming services, and YouTube videos. APRA AMCOS offers licences to these businesses and organisations to use your music. We also track what music they use. We then pay songwriters, composers, and music publishers their share of the licence fees we collect, after deducting our administration costs.
Live performances
Do you play live at pubs, clubs, cafes, or other live music venues? You can get song royalties for these performances by submitting a Performance Report via the Writer Portal or APRA AMCOS for Music Creators app (available from the App Store or Google Play). Just tell us what songs you’ve performed in which venues over the past financial year— from 1 July to 30 June—and you could receive royalty payments for playing your original music live. Submit after the show or when it is convenient for you, royalties are paid quarterly.
Make sure you also tell us about any covers you perform so the original songwriters can get paid royalties. If someone else performs your song live, you'll get the song royalties.

Text from the Mega Book
Your permission must be given anytime somebody wants to use your work. APRA AMCOS membership allows you to legally assign specific rights to our organisations so that we may licence works on your behalf. We put licences in place with music users, collect licence fees, and pay them back to you as royalties.
APRA AMCOS has reciprocal agreements with many international performing rights and mechanical rights organisations. If your music is played in other countries, international organisations just like APRA AMCOS are licensing and collecting within their own territories on your behalf. They pass that money to APRA AMCOS and we pay it to our members. APRA AMCOS also does this for international Performing and Mechanical Rights associations when their members have their music played in Australasia.
Not everyone will receive royalties. APRA AMCOS only pays the songwriters/composers. It is common for producers to receive a cut of the royalties if they, for example, have created a beat that was used. If the producer was only providing production/compositional ideas and didn’t contribute directly to the composition, they would not be able to collect royalties.
---
DIRECT DISTRIBUTION AND DISTRIBUTION BY ANALOGY
Commercial radio and streaming services provide data about every single track they play which enables us to pay all writers of music broadcast.
Some places may report some information to us which requires us to use a mixture of direct and analogy distribution practices. Our website features a page with guides about distribution.
From the time your work is broadcast in
Australia to the time we can pay you, there's about a six month turn around. This is because a radio or TV station doesn't have to report your music usage to us until two weeks into the following month.
APRA AMCOS relies on our affiliate societies to do the licensing and royalty collection on our behalf. We receive the funds of from these societies and pay you as our member.
However, we are subject to their practices and to their terms.
If your works are performed overseas as a live performance, on TV, or in a Jingle, you can report this information to us. The form for this is found within the forms section of the website.
If you play live at pubs, clubs, cafes, or other live music venues in Australia and New Zealand, you can get royalties for these performances by submitting a Live Performance Report (LPR). Just tell us what songs you've performed in which venues, and you could be paid for playing your original music live. Please make sure you also tell us about any covers you perform so the original songwriters can get paid too. Only one person from the group needs to submit an LPR. Not everyone needs to do it.
You can claim royalties for Australian or New
Zealand-based live performances of your works, streamed on Facebook, Instagram, YouTube, or TikTok. You must submit with
the Live Stream Performance Report form on our website.

Text from Live Chat
APRA AMCOS royalties are drawn from licences paid by businesses who use music (such as venues, radio stations, and streaming services). We pay these royalties to the songwriters of the works used.
Our distribution information guides also explain how the licence fees APRA AMCOS collects are paid out as royalties.
Mechanical royalties (also known as reproduction royalties) are generated whenever an original musical work is licensed by a third party and commercially reproduced or sold.
This includes CD/DVD/vinyl recordings, digital downloads, and streaming. Mechanical royalties are collected by AMCOS, and you need to be a member of AMCOS for APRA AMCOS to collect them on your behalf.
Royalties for eligible film and television performances are paid automatically to our members in our quarterly distributions. Screen broadcasters report music usage within film and television productions to us via cue sheets.
Traditionally, we would expect royalties to be paid out 6 months after airing - depending on the reporting and processing lead times.
Radio royalties are paid out automatically in our quarterly distributions. There is no reporting needed from our writer members.
Major commercial stations provide a list of every single song they play on air in addition to their licence fee.
Whereas community radio station only report during set sample periods. Only if your work is picked up in a sample, then royalties will be paid out.
Traditionally, we would expect royalties to be paid out 6 months after airing - depending on the reporting and processing lead times.
Digital royalties are paid out automatically in our quarterly distributions.
There is no reporting needed from our writer members. However, adding ISRCs to your work registrations does assist us greatly.
APRA AMCOS does have licence agreements in place with most legal Digital Service Providers.
Traditionally, we would expect royalties to be paid out 6 months after steaming or download in Australia or New Zealand - depending on
the reporting and processing lead times.
Overseas royalties do take longer, as they must first be processed by our overseas affiliate societies. This can take 12-24 months, depending on the territory.

Videos Completed
How do I earn royalties?
https://youtu.be/PpgVPRAqFtM
How does APRA AMCOS know my music is played?
https://youtu.be/Ip9keh9i71U
Does APRA AMCOS collect all your royalties for songwriting?  https://youtu.be/aJcpTmoKdrs?si=xPW7tW1SappXkiKX
Understanding royalties & songwriting splits  https://youtu.be/ZsUol4mkGl4?si=wzuVFYwgkQtHDzL9