Topic:
SUCCESSOR IN TITLE

Text and links from the website:
https://www.apraamcos.com.au/about/help/faqs?faqs%5Bmenu%5D%5Bcategories.lvl0%5D=Successor+in+title&faqid=71946
In Australia, copyright exists until 70 years after a songwriter’s death. We can arrange to have any future royalties generated by your musical works paid directly to a person entitled to receive them (usually the beneficiary of your estate). This person is referred to as a Successor in Title (SIT).\
What is the process once my Successor in Title (SIT) has submitted their application?
Following receipt of all documentation, the SIT application is presented to our Board of Directors for approval. Once that has
occurred, we enter the SIT into our system as an Associate Member, organise for any royalties accrued in your account to be transferred to their account and pay them in the next available distribution. All future royalties will be paid as per our distribution schedule, with the SIT receiving an email to advise that payment has been made.
Can I have more than one Successor in Title (SIT)?
Yes. There is no limit to the number of SITs you can have your royalties paid to. For example, if you have 4 children your royalties can be paid 25% to each of them or any other percentage as detailed in your will.
What happens if I'm not an APRA AMCOS member at the time of my death?
The Successor in Title (SIT) application process is the same, we just enter the songwriter’s details posthumously into our system as if a new member.
What information does APRA AMCOS need from my Successor in Title (SIT)?
The SIT needs to complete an application form, an electronic banking form and provide us with:
- A notarised copy of the death certificate.
- A copy of their ID, for example a driver’s licence or passport.
- A copy of the will (if there was one).

Text from the Mega Book
Under  Australian  law  a  composer  owns  the copyright  in  their  musical  work  (music  and lyrics)  for  70  years  after  they  have  passed away, or for 50 years under New Zealand law. APRA AMCOS has a process by which the next of kin, or beneficiaries, to a songwriter’s estate can apply for an associate membership. This can be one person, or several, or even a company which represents your estate.
We call this Successor in Title (SIT). The eligible beneficiary, as SIT, effectively becomes custodian of the deceased writer’s musical works.
If a SIT passes away while the musical works are still in copyright, their next of kin, or beneficiary, would be able to become the next SIT member.
A Successor in Title can:
1. Give permission for  use  of the composer’s work. (For example, for the music to be used in film or theatre productions or allow the work to be sampled and remixed.)
2. Register any new, previously unknown, or unregistered works on behalf of the original writer. (Examples could be new remixes or arrangements of songs.)
3. Receive any royalties or financial benefits from use of the writer’s work.
To avoid any confusion or disputes over who should receive your royalties, all you need is a simple section in your will stating who you’re leaving your APRA AMCOS royalties to.
The Successor in Title applicant/s will need to contact APRA AMCOS on writer@apra.com.au or nz@apraamcos.co.nz to get the required application forms. They’ll also need to provide the following supporting documentation:
­ A certified copy of the writer’s death certificate showing next of kin.
­ A copy of each applicant’s legal ID. The SIT applicant may also  need to provide additional  documentation  to  support  their claim if requested.
Only the SIT will have access to the late writer’s APRA AMCOS financial and musical works information and be able to authorize anyone else to view this information.

