Topic:
Synchronisation

Text and links from the website:
https://www.apraamcos.com.au/about/governance-policy/distribution-rules-practices/distribution-information-guides/synchronisation
A synchronisation (sync) is created when music is combined with a form of visual media. For music creators, the most common sync opportunities arise in film, television, advertising, and gaming.
Publishers work to place the music they represent into adverts, TV programmes, films, and other productions. On the other side are music supervisors, who source music for use in those productions.
A directly negotiated agreement will be secured between the copyright owner or their agent/publisher/representative and the music supervisor/production company.
Most sync licensing does not involve AMCOS, but in the limited instances where AMCOS represents the rights, AMCOS will negotiate a licence fee for the use of the song.
What information does APRA AMCOS use to determine who should be paid?
Synchronisations are based on an agreement for a specific song. AMCOS receives a licence request with the relevant song information included.
How often are royalties paid? Distributions for synchronisations are distributed in the quarter the licence fee invoice is paid in full.
https://www.apraamcos.com.au/music-licences/select-a-licence/synchronisation

Text from the Mega Book
Music synchronisation is created when music is combined with a form of visual media. For music creators, the most common sync opportunities arise in film, television, advertising, and gaming. Music synchronisation can be a lucrative income stream for songwriters and composers.
Landing a great sync can be a game changer, and many songwriters have experienced considerable success thanks to the right syncs.
The synchronisation right remains with the composer and is not automatically assigned to AMCOS. Writers can license synchronisation individually, or through their publisher (if they’re signed to one) can deal directly with production companies or independent filmmakers for sync use.
AMCOS can collect sync royalties provided you are an unpublished existing AMCOS writer member and the work in question is currently registered in our database. If the work is already registered with APRA but you are not yet an AMCOS member, you can easily join AMCOS. Once your application is processed, we will attach AMCOS membership to all your existing, unpublished registered works with APRA. If your work is already registered with APRA, and you're an AMCOS member (or have applied for AMCOS membership), and you'd like AMCOS to administer your sync agreement on your behalf, please send us an email with the details. We'll get back to you and explain next steps.

Text from Live Chat
Synchronisation Right refers to the right to reproduce music where the music is synchronised with moving or still images (visual media) e.g.: music for a TV advertisement, music used in a film, TV program, or game.
Two kinds of copyright can be involved in synchronisation.
Copyright on the musical composition which is controlled by the songwriter, composer, or publisher.
Copyright on the sound recording - which is usually owned by the recording artist or record label.

