Topic:
Work Registrations
(this is also listed as Registering Works)

Text and links from the website:
https://www.apraamcos.com.au/music-creators/member-resources/guides/co-writing-splits-and-registering-your-works
Registering works with APRA AMCOS Once you have agreement on song split
percentages, make sure you register the song with APRA AMCOS asap. This is called a work registration. You can quickly and easily register your works in the APRA AMCOS Writer Portal, or in the APRA AMCOS for Music Creators App. Don’t wait until the song has been played, performed, or released before this happens! You need to register your works before they can earn royalties.
Can song splits be changed after a work is registered?
After a song has been registered with us, we require permission from ALL the co-owners (co-writers AND publishers) to change it. This can prove almost impossible if relationships within bands or between co-writers have broken down.
Work registration tips
If you have a publishing agreement, your publisher needs to register the work, so don’t delay providing that information to your publisher.
If you are registering a remix of a pre-existing song or composition, you will need permission from the copyright owners of the original song or composition before you register your remix. For co-writes, enter the percentage share for each co-writer of the song.
If you need an International Standard Recording Code (ISRC), contact ARIA.
If you make a mistake when you register a work – eg: you might have misspelt the title – you’ll need to contact us to make edits. Email worksreg@apra.com.au

Text from the Mega Book
WHAT IS A SONG REGISTRATION
You must register your songs and/or compositions through the APRA AMCOS Writer Portal or App to ensure you receive royalties when you work is played or performed.
Once you have agreement on song split percentages, make sure you register the song with APRA AMCOS ASAP. You can quickly and easily register your works in the APRA AMCOS Writer Portal, or in the APRA AMCOS for Music Creators App. You must register your works before they can earn royalties.
Once your work has been registered, it goes to the works registration team who manually process all work registrations. Once our works team process your work, you could be issued an ISWC. This is a code that's used by collecting societies all around the world to identify the song itself (the composition not the recording). For this code to be obtained,
all the co-writers must be members of a performing rights organisation.
WORK REGISTRATION TIPS
- If you have a publishing agreement, your publisher needs to register the work, so don’t delay providing that information to them.
- If you are registering a remix of a pre- existing song or composition, you will need permission from the copyright owners of the original before you register your remix.
- For co-writes, enter the percentage share for each co-writer of the song.
- If you need an International Standard Recording Code (ISRC), contact ARIA
- The only time you would create a new registration of the same song is if there was a change to the songwriters or the splits. For example, if you and your co-writer have a song with a 50/50 split, and someone creates a dance remix, you may consider giving them a percentage of your royalties. In this case, you would create a new registration to add the third person and their shares in. But if you and your co-writer made your own dance remix there would be no need to create a new registration, as you are going to be paid the same way. All we would need is a new ISRC for the dance version.
- If you make a mistake when you
register a work – e.g.: you might have misspelt the title – you’ll need to contact us to make edits.
Email: writer@apra.com.au If there are co-writers involved, you’ll need to include their permission to make the change too.
All registered writers have control of that work and how it's used. For example, if you get offers for your song to be used in advertisements, your co-writers can say yes or no for the use of the music. Therefore, it is important to credit the correct people on the APRA AMCOS registration.
As a songwriter, you cannot register a work that you made no contribution to. As you are logged into your own portal, we know that you are at least a partial composer of this piece, and you own some copyright in it.
CAN SONG SPLITS BE CHANGED AFTER A WORK IS REGISTERED?
After a song has been registered with us, we require written permission from ALL the co- owners (co-writers AND publishers) to change it. This can prove almost impossible if there are no longer relationships within bands or between co-writers. It's important that you know whoever you register on a work is there permanently unless they agree in writing to have their shares changed.
The ISWC (International Standard Musical Work Code) is a unique, permanent, and internationally recognized reference number for the identification of musical works. For more information about ISWC, visit www.iswc.org/frequently-asked-questions

Text from Live Chat
When you register a work with us, it must be reviewed and processed by our team at APRA AMCOS.
Registration Received means we have received a registration and it's in the queue to be processed.
Your work can collect royalties while it's in this status and you can add the work to Performance Reports.
Once it's processed, royalties will be automatically paid out to you.
Additional Registration Received means that we have received a new registration for a work.
Our team will review this registration and if it alters the writers' shares, we will get in touch with you to confirm next steps.
Until such time, the work will continue to be paid to the current contributor's shares.
Unregistered work - If we receive data indicating a work has been performed or used, and can't match to an existing registered work, we create a placeholder to hold any royalties until the work is registered.
If the work is yours, you can register it:
- via Mobile App, click on the pencil icon next to the unregistered work
- via Writer Portal, register a new work with the same title as your unregistered work.
If the work isn't yours, please get in touch with us at worksreg@apra.com.au and we will remove this from your listing.
In Dispute means we have been informed that the current contributor's shares have been disputed.
For published works, please get in touch with your publisher to confirm what you believe the correct shares are.
If you aren't published for this work, you can reach out to us at worksreg@apra.com.au and we can advise what next steps you can take to resolve the dispute.
You can make updates to the duration of a work, as well as add a new ISRC or Alternative Title via the App or Writer Portal on the web.
Just click on the work you wish to update, and you can make changes by clicking Edit or + next to the relevant part you're updating.
To make changes to the splits on a work, you will need to reach out to our Works Registration team.
To change other information on a work registration we need an email request, to be processed by our Works Registration team.
Please send the following information to worksreg@apra.com.au\
1฀⃣ The current work title
2฀⃣ The work's WorkID (normally starts with GW)
3฀⃣ Your name
For any element(s) you wish to change (such as titles or splits):
- What we currently have, and
- What you want it changed to
Please cc any co-writers into this email, for major changes we will need all co-writers to approve.
If you wish to claim a share of royalties for your remix, you will always need to obtain the written permission from the owners of the original song. The original owners may be songwriters, music publishers or both.
If permission is granted for you to claim a percentage of royalties for your remix, you should forward a copy of this permission to worksreg@apra.com.au along with your remix registration details. If you are commissioned specifically for a film, television, or other screen production, you do not need to register all individual cues.
Please email filmtv@apra.com.au for more information.

Videos Completed
How to Register Your Works:  https://youtu.be/pKViXqnDZMc
APRA AMCOS Writer Portal: Register Works  https://youtu.be/xQ9c7KFXGok