Topic:
Writer Portal

Text and links from the website:
https://www.apraamcos.com.au/about/help/faqs?faqs%5Bmenu%5D%5Bcategories.lvl0%5D=Music%20creators&faqid=111732
How do I log in to the Writer Portal?
In the 'Log in' menu on the website, choose 'Songwriters and composers' and then log in to your account. Enter your email address - the one you use for APRA AMCOS correspondence.
If it's your first time logging in, you'll receive an activation email, asking you to choose a password. Make sure you check your junk or spam if you can't see the activation email in your inbox.
Once you've created your password, you'll get access to the Writer Portal.
https://www.apraamcos.com.au/about-us/news-and-events/your-new-writer-portal-is-here
What can you do in the Writer Portal?
Log in using the email address you use for APRA AMCOS correspondence (statements, APRAP) - your email address needs to be unique to your account. No more searching for your member number to log in.
View royalties and payments and download financial documents (XLS and PDF)
Access your Earnings Insights to see how your songs make money.
Register and view your works. Update your details.
Submit Performance Reports, get paid quarterly.
Register and upload jingles and jingle audio (replaces OPUS)
Create a Payment Summary for tax and financial purposes.
Other info here –
https://www.apraamcos.com.au/about-us/news-and-events/payment-summary-document
https://www.apraamcos.com.au/about-us/news-and-events/register-and-upload-jingles-in-the-new-writer-portal

Text from the Mega Book
The APRA AMCOS Online Writer’s Portal or APRA AMCOS for Music Creators app is an interface that allows you to view and edit your account details, register and manage works, view royalty statements and Earnings Insights. It acts as a one-stop shop for ensuring you receive the royalties that you’ve earnt.
Using the Writer Portal allows you to register your works and submit performance reports, which in turn informs APRA AMCOS of the quarterly live performance royalty payments you are owed. Once you receive a royalty payment, you will be able to view details and download financial documents.
HOW TO USE THE WRITER PORTAL
1.    Click the ‘Log In’ button on the top right corner of the APRA AMCOS website.
2.    Select ‘Songwriters and composers’ from the dropdown menu.
3.    Log in using your email and password.
If it’s your first-time logging in, you will receive an activation email asking you to create a password. Once this task is completed you will have
access to the Writer Portal.
4.    Check and update your personal information including your phone number, email, address, and bank details via the ‘My Account’ tab on the dropdown menu that appears when you click on your name in the top right corner. Some details, such as a change of legal name, may require you to contact APRA AMCOS directly.
5. Within the portal you can see song registrations and splits, payments, and account details.

Text from Live Chat
To use the Writer Portal or mobile app you will need to log in using the email address you use for your APRA AMCOS correspondence (e.g.: statement notifications, APRAP newsletter).
A lot of information can be updated via the dashboard of your member login.
You can log into your APRA AMCOS membership here:
https://portals.apraamcos.com.au/
Once you have logged in your songwriter account, scroll down the works section of your homepage, or click on the Works tab.

Videos Completed
APRA AMCOS Writer Portal: Trailer  https://youtu.be/xQqX25TD-8E